Preface and Introduction of Up From Slavery.
This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Andy Yu.
Up From Slavery by Booker T. Washington.
Preface and Introduction.
This volume is dedicated to my wife, Margaret James Washington,
and to my brother, John H. Washington,
whose patience, fidelity, and hard work
have gone far to make the work at Tuskegee successful.
Preface.
This volume is the outgrowth of a series of articles
dealing with incidents in my life which
were published consecutively in the Outlook
While they were appearing in that magazine,
I was constantly surprised at the number of requests which
came to me from all parts of the country,
asking that the articles be permanently
preserved in book form.
I am most grateful to the Outlook for permission
to gratify these requests.
I have tried to tell a simple, straightforward story
with no attempt at embellishment.
My regret is that what I have attempted to do
has been done so imperfectly.
The greater part of my time and strength
is required for the executive work connected
with the Tuskegee Normal and Industrial Institute
and in securing the money necessary for the support
of the institution.
Much of what I have said has been written on board trains
or at hotels or railroad stations
while I have been waiting for trains
or during the moments that I could spare
from my work while at Tuskegee.
Without the painstaking and generous assistance
of Mr. Max Bennett Thrasher,
I could not have succeeded in any satisfactory degree.
Introduction.
The details of Mr. Washington's early life
as Flankley sat down in Up From Slavery
do not give quite a whole view of his education.
He had the training that a colored youth received
at Hampton, which indeed the autobiography does explain,
but the reader does not get his intellectual pedigree
for Mr. Washington himself, perhaps,
does not as clearly understand it as another man might.
The truth is he had the training
during the most impressionable period of his life
that was very extraordinary,
such a training as few men of his generation have had.
To see its full meaning,
one must start in the Hawaiian Islands
half a century or more ago.
There, Samuel Armstrong, a youth of missionary parents,
earned enough money to pay his expenses
at an American college equipped with a small sum
and the earnestness that the undertaking implied.
He came to Williams College
when Dr. Mark Hopkins was president.
Williams College had many good things for youth in that day,
as it has in this,
but the greatest was the strong personality
of its famous president.
Every student does not profit by a great teacher,
but perhaps no young man ever came
under the influence of Dr. Hopkins,
whose whole nature was so right for profit
by such an experience as young Armstrong.
He lived in the family of President Hopkins
and thus had a training that was wholly out of the common,
and this training had much to do
with the development of his own strong character,
whose originality and force
we are only beginning to appreciate.
For this interesting view of Mr. Washington's education,
I am indebted to Robert C. Austin, Esquire,
Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Hampton Institute
and the intimate friend of General Armstrong
during the whole period of his educational work.
In turn, Samuel Armstrong, the founder of Hampton Institute
took up his work as a trainer of youth.
He had very raw material,
and doubtless most of his pupils
failed to get the greatest lessons from him.
But as he had been a particularly receptive pupil
of Dr. Hopkins,
so Booker Washington became a peculiarly
receptive pupil of his.
To the formation of Mr. Washington's character,
then went the missionary CEO of New England.
Influenced by one of the strongest personalities
in modern education,
and the wide reaching moral earnestness
of General Armstrong himself.
These inferences are easily recognizable
in Mr. Washington today
by men who knew Dr. Hopkins and General Armstrong.
I got the cue to Mr. Washington's character
from a very simple incident many years ago.
I had never seen him and knew little about him,
except that he was the head of a school
at Tuskegee, Alabama.
I had occasion to write to him
and I addressed him as the Reverend Booker T. Washington.
In his reply, there was no mention
of my addressing him as a clergyman.
But when I had occasion to write to him again
and persistent in making him a preacher,
his second letter brought a postscript.
I have no claim to Reverend.
I knew most of the colored men
who had at the time had become prominent
as leaders of their race,
but I had not then known one
who was neither a politician nor a preacher.
And I had not heard of the head
of an important colored school
who was not a preacher.
A new kind of man surely if he looks upon his task
as an economic one instead of a theoretical one.
I wrote him an apology for mistaking him for a preacher.
The first time that I went to Tuskegee,
I was asked to make an address
to the school on Sunday evening.
I sat upon the platform of the large chapel
and looked forth on a thousand colored faces.
And the choir of a hundred or more behind me
sang a familiar religious melody
and the whole company joined in the chorus unction.
I was the only white man under the roof
and the scene and the songs made an impression on me
that I shall never forget.
Mr. Washington arose and asked them to sing one after another
all the old melodies that I had heard all my life.
But I had never before heard them sung by a thousand voices
nor by the voices of educated Negroes.
I had associated them with the Negro of the past,
not with the Negro who was struggling upward.
They brought to my mind the plantation, the cabin,
the slave, not the freedom in quest of education.
But on the plantation and in the cabin,
they had never been sung
as these thousand students sang them.
I saw again all the old plantations that I had ever seen.
The whole history of the Negro ran through my mind
and the inexpressible pathos of his life
found expression in these songs
as I had never before felt it.
And the future, these were the ambitious use of the race
at work with an earnestness that put to shame
the conventional student life
of most educational institutions.
Another song rolled up along the rafters
and as soon as silence came,
I found myself in front of this extraordinary mass of faces
thinking not of them,
but of that long and unhappy chapter
in our country's history,
which followed the one great structural mistake
of the fathers of the republic.
Thinking of the one continuous great problem
that generations of statesmen had wrangled over
and a million men fought about
and that had so drafted the mass of angry men
in the southern states as to hold them back a hundred years
behind their fellows in every other part of the world,
in England, in Australia,
and in the northern and western states.
I was thinking of this dark shadow
that had oppressed every large-minded statesman
from Jefferson to Lincoln.
These thousands young men and women about me
were victims of it.
I too was an innocent victim of it.
The whole republic was a victim of that fundamental era
of importing Africa into America.
I held firmly to the first article of my faith
that the republic must stand fast
by the principle of a fair ballot.
But I recalled the wretched mass
that Reconstruction had made of it.
I recalled the low level of public life
in all the black states.
Every effort of philanthropy seemed to have miscarried.
Every effort at connecting abuses seemed of doubtful value
and the race friction seemed to become severer.
Here was the century-old problem
in all its pathos seated, singing before me.
Who were the more to be pitied,
these innocent victims of an ancient wrong
or I and men like me who had inherited the problem?
I long ago thrown aside illusions and theories
and was willing to meet the faces face to face
and to do whatever in God's name a man might do
towards saving the next generation from such a burden.
But I felt the weight of 20 well-nigh hopeless years
of thought and reading and observation
for the old difficulties remained
and new ones had sprung up.
Then I saw clearly that the way out of a century of bundles
had been made by this man who stood beside me
and was introducing me to his audience.
Before me was the material he had used.
All about me was the indisputable evidence
that he had found the natural line of development.
He had shown the way time and patience and encouragement
and work would do the rest.
It was then more clearly than ever before
that I understood the patriotic significance
of Mr. Washington's work.
It is this conception and of him
that I have ever since carried with me.
It is on this that his claim to our gratitude rests.
To teach the Negro to read,
whether English or Greek or Hebrew,
bitters no paslips.
To make the Negro work,
that is what his master did in one way
and hunger has done in another.
Yet both these left sultan life were defounded.
But to teach the Negro to do skillful work
as men of all the races that have risen have worked,
responsible work, which is education and character.
And most of all, when Negroes so teach Negroes to do this,
that they will teach others with a missionary zeal
that puts all ordinary philanthropic efforts to shame.
This is to change the whole economic basis of life
and the whole character of a people.
The plan itself is not a new one.
It was worked out at Hampton Institute,
but it was done at Hampton by white men.
The plan had in fact been many times theoretically laid down
by thoughtful students of sultan life.
Handicrafts were taught in the days of slavery
on most well-managed plantations.
But Tuskegee is, neptuness, a brand new chapter
in the history of the Negro
and in the history of the naughtiest problem
we have ever faced.
It not only makes a carpenter of a man,
it makes a man of a carpenter.
In one sense, therefore, it is of greater value
than any other institution for the training of men and women
that we have from Cambridge to Palo Alto.
It is almost the only one of which it may be said
that it points the way to a new epoch
in a large area of our national life.
To work out the plan on paper or at a distance,
that is one thing.
For a white man to work it out, that too is an easy thing.
For a colored man to work it out in the South,
where in its constructive period,
he was necessarily misunderstood by his own people
as well as by the whites,
and where he had to adjust it at every step
to the strained race relations,
that is so very difficult and more difficult a thing
that the man who did it put the country
under lasting obligations to him.
It was not and is not a mere educational task.
Anybody could teach boys trades
and give them an elementary education.
Such tasks have been done
since the beginning of civilization,
but this task had to be done
with the rawest of raw material,
done with the civilization of the dominant race,
and so as not to run across race lines and social lines
that are the strongest forces in the community.
It had to be done for the benefit of the whole community.
It had to be done, however, without local help
in the face of direct poverty done by begging
and done in spite of the ignorance of one race
and the prejudice of the other.
No man living had a harder task
and a task that called for more wisdom to do it right.
The true measure of Mr. Washington's success
is then not his teaching the pupils of Tuskegee,
nor even gaining the support
of philanthropic persons at a distance,
but this, that every Southern white man of character
and of wisdom has been one to cordial recognition
of the value of the work.
Even men who held and still hold to the conviction
that a mere book education for the Southern blacks
under present conditions is a positive evil.
This is a demonstration of the efficiency
of the Hampton Tuskegee idea that stands
like the demonstration of the value
of democratic institutions themselves.
A demonstration made so clear
in spite of the greatest odds
that it is no longer open to argument.
Consider the change that has come in 20 years
in the discussion of the Negro problem.
Two of three decades ago,
social philosophers, statisticians,
and well-meaning philanthropists were still talking
and writing about the deportations of the Negroes
or about their settlement within some restricted area
or about their settling in all parts of the union
or about their decline through the neglect of their children
or about the rapid multiplication
until they should expel the whites from the South
of every sort of nonsense under heaven.
All this has given place to the simple plan
of an indefinite extension among the neglected classes
of both races on the Hampton Tuskegee system of training.
The problem in one sense has disappeared.
The future will have for the South
swift of snow development of its masses
and of its soil in population
to the swift of slow developments of this kind of training.
This change of view is a true measure
of Mr. Washington's work.
The literature of the Negro in America is colossal
from political oratory through abolitionism
to Uncle Tom's Cabin and Cotton is King,
a vast mass of books which many men have read
to the waste of good years and I among them.
But the only books that I have read a second time
or ever care gain to read in the whole list,
most of them by tiresome and unbalanced reformers,
are Uncle Remus and Up from Slavery.
For these are the great literature of the subject.
One has all the best of the past,
the other foreshadows a better future
and the men who wrote them are the only men
who have written of the subject with that perfect frankness
and perfect knowledge and perfect pose
whose other name is genius.
Mr. Washington has won a worldwide fame at an early age.
His story of his own life already has the distinction
of translation into more languages,
I think than any other American book
and I suppose that he has as large a personal acquaintance
among men of influence as any private citizen now living.
His only teaching at Tuskegee is unique.
He lectures to his advanced students
on the art of right living,
not out of textbooks but straight out of life.
Then he sends them into the country
to visit Negro families.
Such a student will come back with a minute report
of the way in which the family that he has seen lives,
what their earnings are,
what they do well and what they do ill
and he will explain how they might live better.
He constructs a definite plan for the betterment
of that particular family
out of the resources that they have.
Such a student, if he be bright,
will profit more by an experience like this
than he could profit by all the books
on sociology and economics that ever were written.
I talked with a boy at Tuskegee
who had made such a study as this
and I could not keep from contrasting his knowledge
and enthusiasm with what I heard in a classroom
at a Negro university in one of the southern states,
which is conducted on the idea
that a college course will save the soul.
Here, the class was reciting a lesson
from an abstruse textbook of economics,
reciting it by rote with so obvious failure
to assimilate it that the ways of labor was pitiful.
I asked Mr. Washington years ago
what he regarded as the most important result of his work
and he replied, I do not know which to put first,
the effect of Tuskegee's work on the Negro
or the effect of the attitude of the white man to the Negro.
The race divergence under the systems of miseducation
was fast getting wider.
Under the influence of the Hampton Tuskegee idea,
the races are coming into a closer sympathy
and into an honorable and helpful relation.
As the Negro becomes economically independent,
he becomes a responsible part of the southern life
and the whites so recognize him
and this must be from the nature of things.
There is nothing artificial about it.
It is development in a perfectly natural way
and the southern whites not only so recognize it
but they are imitating it in the teaching
of the neglected masses of their own race.
It has thus come about that the school
was taking a more direct and helpful hold on life
in the south than anywhere else in the country.
Education is not a thing apart from life,
not a system, nor a philosophy.
It is a direct teaching how to live and how to work.
To say that Mr. Washington has won the gratitude
of all throughout southern white men
is to say that he has worked
with the highest practical wisdom
at a large constructive task
for no plan for the upbuilding of the freedom
could succeed that ran counter to southern opinion.
To win the support of southern opinion
and to shape it was a necessary part of the task
and this he has so well succeeded
that the south has a sincere and high regard for him.
He once said to me that he recalled the day
and remembered it thankfully when he grew large enough
to regard a southern white man as he regard a northern one.
It is well for our common country that the day is come
when he and his work are regarded as highly in the south
as in the other part of the union.
I think that no man of our generation
has a more noteworthy achievement to his credit than this
and it is an achievement of moral earnestness
of the strong character of a man
who has done a great rational service.
Introduction by Walter H. Page.
End of Preface and Introduction.
Recording by Andy Yu, Mississauga, Canada.
Thank you.